NASA Earth Science Data and Information Policy, quoted verbatim (HTML tags stripped).
https://www.earthdata.nasa.gov/engage/open-data-services-software-policies/data-information-policy -> redirects to .../data-information-guidance (HTTP 200, 142,113 B), retrieved 2026-09-30.
GISTEMP is a GISS analysis product, not mission data from a NASA Earth observing platform; the policy is quoted for NASA's stance on open data, not as the licence of GISTEMP. The licence is that GISTEMP is a US Government work (17 U.S.C. 105).

 NASA promotes full and open sharing of data with research and applications communities, private industry, academia, 
and the general public. The greater the availability of these data, the more quickly and effectively the user 
communities can utilize them to address basic Earth science questions and use them for developing innovative practical 
applications to benefit the general public.A common set of carefully crafted data exchange and access principles was 
created by the Japanese, European, and U.S. International Earth Observing System 
([http://www.codata.info/data_access/policies.html#IEOS] IEOS) partners during the 1990s and the early years of the 
21st century. From these principles, NASA has adopted the following data policy (in this context the term 'data' 
includes observation data, metadata, products, information, algorithms, scientific source code, documentation, models, 
images, and research results):NASA will plan and follow data acquisition policies that ensure the collection of 
long-term datasets needed to satisfy the research requirements of NASA's Earth science programNASA commits to the full 
and open sharing of Earth science data obtained from NASA Earth observing platforms, sub-orbital platforms, and field 
campaigns with all users as soon as these data become availableThere will be no period of exclusive access to NASA 
Earth science data. Following a post-launch checkout period, all data will be made available to the user community. Any 
variation in access will result solely from user capability, equipment, and connectivityNASA will make available all 
NASA-generated standard products along with the source code for algorithm software, coefficients, and ancillary data 
used to generate these productsAll NASA Earth science missions, projects, and grants and cooperative agreements shall 
include [/engage/data-management-guidance] open science and data management plans to facilitate the implementation of 
these data principlesNASA will enforce a principle of non-discriminatory data access so that all users will be treated 
equally. For data products supplied from an international partner or another agency, NASA will restrict access only to 
the extent required by the appropriate Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)In keeping with the Office of Management and 
Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, NASA will charge for distribution of data no more than the cost of dissemination. In cases 
where such dissemination cost would unduly inhibit use, the distribution charge will generally be below that 
costThrough MOUs and agreements with appropriate interagency partners, NASA will ensure that all data required for 
Earth system science research are archived. Data archives will include easily accessible information about the data 
holdings, including quality assessments, relevant supporting information, and guidance for locating and obtaining 
dataNASA will engage in ongoing partnerships with other Federal agencies to increase the effectiveness and reduce the 
cost of the NASA Earth science program. This interagency cooperation shall include: sharing of data from space-based 
platforms and other sources, mutual validation and calibration of data, and consolidation of duplicative capabilities 
and functionsNASA will, in compliance with applicable Federal law and policy, negotiate and implement arrangements with 
its international partners, with an emphasis on meeting the data acquisition, distribution, and archival needs of the 
U.S.NASA will collect a variety of metrics intended to measure or assess the efficacy of its data systems and services 
as well as to assess user satisfaction. Consistent with applicable laws, NASA will make those assessment data available 
for reviewThe data collected by NASA represent a significant public investment in research. NASA holds these data in a 
public trust to promote comprehensive, long-term Earth science research. Consequently, NASA developed policies 
consistent with existing international policies to maximize access to data and to keep user costs as low as possible. 
These policies apply to all data archived, maintained, distributed, or produced by NASA data 
systems.[/engage/open-data-services-software/data-rights-related-issues] Data Rights and Related Issues - Detailed 
information on NASA data policy applicable to all NASA Earth Science Research 
Announcements[/learn/earth-observation-data-basics/data-processing-levels] Data Processing Levels[/node/9558] Data 
Maturity LevelsReferencesThe National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, as amended, 42 U.S.C. §2451, et seq.The Land 
Remote Sensing Policy Act of 1992, 15 U.S.C. §5601, et seq.The Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. §3501, et seq.The 
Freedom of Information Act, as amended, 5 U.S.C. §552 (1994), amended by P. L. 104-231OMB Circular A-130 (February 8, 
1996)National Space Policy (NSTC-8, September 19, 1996)Presidential Directive (NSPD-7), Space-Based Global Change 
Observation (May 28, 1992)Statements on Data Management for Global Change Research (Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, July 1991)Mission to Planet Earth Commercial Strategy (March 1997)IEOS Data Exchange Principles
